Ladies and gentlemen,
please welcome Sal Soghoian,
the AppleScript product
manager to the stage.
Wow, this is a, whoa, okay.
Let me adjust my voice.
Yes, Sal is very thundering at times.
How's that?
Is that better?
This is quite a response.
It just confirms my gut instinct
that AppleScript's on fire again.
Another year of AppleScript just
thundering forward.
Because of the interest I can see a lot
of these faces I haven't seen before.
So either you're in the wrong session.
This is about bird watching, right?
Okay.
Or you're interested in some of
the core technologies that you
haven't touched in Mac OS X before,
namely AppleScript.
Your best friend in life is AppleScript.
I must give you a legal warning up front.
I'm required by law.
It started in Wisconsin,
but I'm required by law to give
you the following legal warning.
AppleScript is the
cocaine of programming.
One line and you'll be ours forever.
So you have been warned,
resist as much as you can.
Let me ask just a couple standard
questions to find out a sense
about where you're at and see
if that kind of hopefully,
please, please, matches up with my
idea about the session.
How many of you are aware of AppleScript?
We'll start with that one.
So everybody, OK.
How many of you are scripting?
How many of you are scripting well?
How many just kind of like jumped into
it because you had to do something
and you heard you can do it but you
don't know how it worked and you just
pieced it together and you banged
your head against the wall 20 times?
Okay.
That's how I learned too.
I spent years and years pounding
my head against the wall going,
"No, I guess that doesn't work."
And coercion I thought was just
moving the matter to the other side.
I didn't realize it was actually
applying to the code in the window.
My original idea when I was talking
to Skip Levins about this session
was to answer that need for a
quick indoctrination into the
mystery secrets about AppleScript.
Because a lot of people
get thrown into it.
They are introduced to it in a
situation where they suddenly
have to deliver some project.
And they find a way that works.
They find something that works for them.
And it might not be the
best way to do something.
They might be unaware of all the
different things that AppleScript can do.
And so my aim with this session is
to give you a peek to the inside
workings of a scripter's brain.
And to turn you on to all the
hidden secrets that I've developed
over the years about how to get up
to speed quickly with AppleScript.
And I focus particularly on some
issues that are pertinent to what
you do as a system administrator.
I don't think I need those.
Can I go to laptop, please?
Essential AppleScript tools
and tips is what I call it.
And for those that know me,
which is probably one or
two people in the room,
this is the first time in seven
years that I've done slides.
So I was so impressed with some of the
slide stuff going on in the session,
I had to get some together.
And I'm not going to do all slides
because I like doing a lot of hands-on.
I like showing you what is there.
I like just, you know, Emerald Lagasse,
you know, you put stuff together and go,
bam, you know, that's what I want to do.
But I put together some slides
so we could organize some of
the concepts behind this topic.
That's it.
You like that one.
Introduction.
Okay.
Purpose of the session is to familiarize
those that are already sophisticated
computer users like yourself with the
intricacies of a high-level language like
AppleScript because it's very strange.
It has some unique properties
about the way that it works
and the way that it thinks.
And I just wanted to help you
get across the bridge quickly.
Does that sound like
the right thing to do?
Yes.
Grumble?
Okay.
All right.
Plight, golf, clap.
I like that.
And we're going to focus on issues
like file setup and manipulation
and the kind of things that you do.
What is AppleScript?
We'll start there.
AppleScript is a peer to Aqua.
Aqua is the graphic user
interface to the OS,
and AppleScript is the language
user interface to the OS.
I like to think about it in those terms.
There's also another language
interface that's really low level,
which is the UNIX interface
that you're familiar with,
the terminal and shell
and that stuff too.
But we also have the ability to
control most of the operating system,
a lot of the applications that run on it,
and we can also talk, when I say we,
I mean the royal we of AppleScript,
also have the ability to
talk across networks and the
Internet and control applications,
to query web services,
those kind of things.
AppleScript has a very large
scope in the operating system,
and it can be your best friend.
We're going to look at the
AppleScript language itself.
AppleScript is an English-like
language that sits on top of an
architecture called AppleEvents.
AppleEvents are messages that are sent
internally within the operating system
that communicate between processes,
communicate between applications,
communicate between networks.
It's like emails being sent
between a bunch of people.
So any action that you do in
the operating system usually has
an AppleEvent attached to it.
And we know this because we broke
AppleScript once and the whole OS stopped
and everybody turned around and looked
at us and we had to do another build.
I remember those days.
But the AppleScript language itself
is an English-like language that is
approachable by the average person.
It gives you a quick way
to accomplish a task.
You basically write what you think.
Duplicate every file of the
startup disk whose name contains
Smith Project to the folder name backup.
That's actually a script.
It's not just a concept.
It's actually a script.
And it's the principle behind
what AppleScript can do.
You take the mind,
you overthink the thought,
and you write it, and it should work.
Most of the time.
It targets scriptable applications
such as Microsoft Word,
Excel, iTunes, just about every database,
Adobe Illustrator, Adobe InDesign,
Photoshop, QuarkXPress.
Dozens and dozens and dozens and
hundreds of applications are scriptable.
They are ready to receive these
Apple events that occur when you
write an English-like sentence that
gets translated into these messages.
Those messages get sent to the
application and the application responds.
We're going to also learn how do
you refer to scriptable items.
This is a tough one.
This is one of the big issues
that usually ties you up
and really confuses you.
Because there's five ways in the
operating system to identify an item.
There's five different means to
have a file reference in Mac OS X.
And AppleScript takes a certain one
of them and it supports all of them.
And we're going to look at
that and take the mystery out
of how do you use different
reference types with AppleScript.
I saw somebody go, "Ah, ah, ah."
Finally.
And we're going to learn how to
use AppleScript to find items.
AppleScript has incredible ability,
more so than just about any
language I've ever come across,
to quickly locate something
in a very easy manner.
You remember that sentence I just said,
duplicate every file of the
startup disk whose name contains
Smith Project to the folder name backup.
That sentence not only contains
a command to do an action,
but it also contains a query
that locates every file whose
name contains Smith Project and
then performs an action with it.
The process of finding every file
whose name contains Smith Project is
done for you automatically,
recursively, using every whose clause
object specifiers.
Ooh, very technical.
We're also going to look at
some of the basic techniques
for programming AppleScript.
It is a serious language,
although I have a lot of fun
with it and I like to make
fun when I'm talking about it.
AppleScript is very much an
industrial strength language.
It is a peer development language with
Java and Objective C in our tools.
You can make applications
entirely out of AppleScript,
partially out of AppleScript,
or a mix or a conglomerate of
any of those type of languages.
We sit at the table with
the rest of the guys.
We're no longer at the little
child's table in the back.
We sit at the big table,
so anything that happens
to Cocoa happens to us,
too.
We're a peer development language.
We're going to learn some of the basic
techniques that the language has,
such as how do you do a repeat loop?
How do you do a conditional statement?
How do you do an error handler?
These are mysterious things to
people coming from another language
because AppleScript has their
own little way about doing it.
But once you've seen it once, you go,
"Oh, duh.
I got it." Well,
we'll practice that part.
And then we're going to look at
some of the AppleScript tools that
are available right on the OS.
All of this is free, by the way.
Did I say free?
I meant to say free.
Free, free, free.
You don't have to pay for AppleScript.
You don't have to pay for
this incredible ability.
It's part of every computer
that Apple computer sells.
And among some of the tools are the
new script editor and the script menu,
folder actions as well,
and it contains a new thing
called AppleScript Studio,
which is part of the Xcode development
tools that we'll be looking at as well.
So let's get started.
I'm going to dig right into
the AppleScript language,
and I'm going to reveal the
mysteries of the universe.
Are we ready?
Yes.
Okay.
How do you refer to items?
This is the big thing.
How do you locate a file?
If I found a bunch of files whose
name contains Smith Project,
how do I use the reference
of those files in a script?
How do I take those items I've found
and how am I able to pass them to
routines or to other applications
to open them or to process them?
Well,
scriptable items are referenced by their
position in their object hierarchy or
where they are in their chain of command.
That's the way that it
works in AppleScript.
In other words,
An example of a reference
for an item would be file new
car data of folder documents,
of folder home,
of folder users of startup disk.
You can see that chain
identifies where the item is.
It's the file here in this folder,
in this folder of this disk.
And that type of relationship,
or that hierarchical relationship
is what AppleScript's based upon.
It's based upon objects,
and objects having properties,
and objects having a location.
And their identity as objects
is determined by where they are
in their hierarchy or where they
are in their chain of command.
Does that kind of make sense?
Let's take a look at this.
There's different kinds of references.
I just said that there's five
different kinds of references.
The first one is a nested reference,
and I just gave you an example of it.
File cars are folder documents of folder
sal of folder users of startup disk.
That's a nested reference.
Why is it called a nested reference?
Because it shows you that each item
is contained inside the other item,
and it uses the possessive
of to indicate ownership.
The file is owned by folder documents,
which is owned by folder sal,
which is owned by folder users,
which is on the startup disk.
And that nested reference acts like
a bunch of Russian dolls that you
kind of stick inside of each other.
But it's just one type of reference.
There's path references,
which are a means to identify
an item by identifying each
part of that hierarchy as a name
separated by a series of letters.
There's a series of colons.
We'll look at that.
There are alias references,
which are similar to past references,
but point to a live existing item.
They're also very interesting
in that they change,
and AppleScript will
find them and track them.
So if you include an alias reference in
your script and you move the file later,
the reference inside the
script changes as well.
There are UNIX references that
we're all probably familiar with,
POSIX, PASS, that kind of stuff.
And there's a thing called file URLs.
These are the five types
of references that you can use
when identifying items in Mac OS X,
and these are the five kinds
that AppleScript supports.
Nested references.
A nested reference, like I said,
indicates an item's position by
using a series of possessives,
the of, so that it identifies the
final object of a container,
of a container, of a container,
of a disk.
And is that what I said?
A nested reference describes an
item's position and its object
hierarchy from the bottom to the top
of its chain using the possessive of,
or where it is in its change of command.
Nested references are the default
format used by scriptable applications.
And that's for the Finder,
that's for system events,
that's for iTunes,
that's for the QuickTime player.
Every scriptable app,
when you query it about an object,
returns you a reference
in the nested format.
And nested references are used for
scriptable items other than files.
Let's look at some examples.
Here's an example of a nested reference.
Folder documents, a folder username,
whichever your username is,
a folder users of the startup disk.
You can see that the documents folders,
the target object here, and its position,
its identity, is indicated by where it
is in the chain of command.
document file cars.pdf
of folder documents,
a folder username,
a folder users of startup disk.
Here's the same kind of thing,
but now we're looking at a
file within a document folder.
Here's an example of a QuickTime movie,
frame 13 of track video
overlay of movie 2.
Every scriptable item is identified by
its position in its object hierarchy
or where it is in its chain of command,
whether it's a file or
whether it's a frame,
or whether it's a text box of a
page of a spread of a document
in QuarkXPress or InDesign,
whether it's a transition of
a video track of a program
of a project in Media 100.
This principle about nested reference and
object hierarchy for AppleScript stays
constant across the world of AppleScript.
Path references.
Nested references, unfortunately,
cannot be generated by a script.
If you have a script and you want
to pass the reference to this object
to the finder to have it delete it,
or you want to pass this
to QuarkXPress to open it,
or you want to pass it to some
processor to resize your image,
you can't generate a nested
reference with AppleScript.
You can't make a thing
that says something of,
something of, something of, something of.
The way that we pass a reference
to an object to an application
so that it can process it,
this is interesting, I like that,
is through this method
called path references.
I guess you'd carry data like this then,
right?
It would be like that.
Path references are used to pass a
reference to an object to the finder
and to the system events applications.
Today, I'm going to have a lot of
focus on what I do on files
and folders and directories.
And those kind of things,
because that's the meat and
potatoes of a lot of sysadmin work,
is dealing with these kind of things.
So I'm going to focus on that,
but just remember that it also works
for any kind of an object like an
iTunes track or something else as well.
A path is a text string read left to
right and it contains the name of each
item that's part of the object's chain.
And these items are separated by a colon.
Path references are preceded with the
name of the class of the target item,
such as a disk, a file, a document file,
or an item, or the generic term item,
meaning anything.
And path references to folders
and disks always end with a colon.
So if the target item is a directory,
your path ends with a colon.
And here's some examples.
Tell application finder.
So these particular paths are
going to be within the scope
of the finder application.
Disk, quote, Macintosh HD, colon,
end quote.
Strings and proper names are
always placed within straight
quotes in the world of AppleScript.
That's the way that they
are identified to scripts.
Anything not within quotes is analyzed
as being part of a dictionary or
part of an application's ability.
So this is a path to a disk.
This is a path reference to a disk.
folder Macintosh HD colon users
colon sal colon documents.
So this is a path to the
documents folder on my hard drive.
You notice that since the
target item is a folder,
I've identified the class
as folder up front and then
pass that string behind it.
Item is a term used that's generic.
So if you have a document file,
an alias file, a font folder,
a regular folder, a suitcase,
any kind of object that's supported
by the finder or the operating system,
you can use the word item in front of it
and it's just a generic way to handle it.
So if the script set you're writing
and you're not sure what kind of
thing you're going to be dealing with,
you can use this item.
Document file is used by the
finder in particular as a way of
describing a certain kind of item.
And then there's another example
of a file item using item.
And those all occur within
the scope of the finder.
That's a finder tell block.
We'll be looking at those.
It begins with addressing the finder
application with tell application
finder and then everything after
it pertains to the finder and it
finally ends with an end tell.
And it has a disk file folder
suite that is almost identical
to what the finder has.
And it does the same kind
of thing as the finder.
There's only a slight difference
is that instead of document file,
which the finder has,
it uses the word file.
Don't worry about document file.
You can type the word file
in and the finder will change
it for you when it needs to.
So you could use file
generically and it would work.
Those are path references.
This is an alias reference.
These are universal file
specifications that are honored by
every application in AppleScript,
and they are what you use when you need
to pass a reference between applications.
They look like a path reference,
only they have the word
"alias" in front of them.
And they point to existing items
that are tracked by AppleScript.
We'll see how that
works in just a second.
Here's an example.
So the previous example,
where we were pointing to a
disk using a path reference,
this is what it would look
like as an alias reference.
This is what the documents folder
looks like as an alias reference.
This is what the file in a
document folder looks like.
And then we have POSIX references.
You're familiar with these.
They're derived from the
UNIX underpinnings of
our operating system.
It's one of the great abilities that
we got that really makes Mac OS X move
forward is its UNIX history.
But these kind of paths, the slash paths,
are generally not supported
by scriptable applications.
We've been around since System 7.
We're based upon the
colon alias kind of idea,
and we're not yet aware
of the slash idea.
But there are easy ways to get back
and forth between the two of them.
Here are some naturally
some POSIX examples.
You can see, you know,
there's the documents folder.
There's a file in the documents folder.
There's another one.
There's another drive,
a folder named backup,
and you notice that the characters are
escaped there because of the spaces.
And then at the bottom,
you notice that the entire line is quoted
because of the spaces inside of the path,
right?
Did I do that correctly?
Yes, I did.
Thank you very much.
Now, AppleScript does provide a way
for get--deriving POSIX references
from other reference types using
a construct called POSIXPath.
And it also--cut the wrong key
there--also provides a way to coerce
these POSIX references into the
kind that AppleScript can use this
with a construct called POSIXFile.
Here's how you derive a POSIX path.
You say POSIX path of and then you
provide an alias reference to an object.
In this case our object
is the documents folder.
If I ask for the POSIX path
of this reference,
we get returned to our script
users slash sal slash documents.
So that's how you get a POSIX path
from an alias reference.
There's the POSIX path of.
Just place that in
front of your reference.
Now,
if you're not sure that the user might
have used some strange characters
or some spaces or stuff like that,
which often occurs on Macintosh world,
you might want to ask for the quoted
form of the POSIX path of this reference.
And what that does is,
neatly in white -- see,
I'm getting into the slide thing.
Neatly in white,
you notice how it puts those
little apostrophes so it quotes
the line for us automatically.
So quoted form of POSIX path of.
If you didn't know that,
you'll be sitting there pulling your
hair out and then you'll make these
stupid routines to try to figure
out how to append apostrophes to
the end of what you were deriving.
Some of you might have
already tried that.
How to coerce a POSIX path.
Now, to get to an alias reference,
it's going to take us a couple steps.
The first one is that we need to
get to what is called a POSIX file.
And if you take a POSIX path
and you say as POSIX file,
you will coerce it to this format here,
which looks like our path reference,
right?
File, then colon delineated from the
drive down to the object itself.
It's by saying as POSIX file.
Anytime you want to do a coercion from
one format into another in AppleScript,
you use the term as.
You could take a number,
coerce it to a string
by saying 10 as string.
You could take a string and
coerce it to a number by saying,
quote, five, quote, as number.
Sal Soghoian
Use the as word, the as verb,
that's not a verb, it's a...
Preposition.
I'm guessing.
Is that right?
Okay.
Whatever it is, it's a wonderful word.
It's a magical thing.
Use that when you're doing a coercion.
That's how you coerce in AppleScript.
Now, to get to the alias,
we're going to do a double coercion.
We're going to, first of all,
coerce to a POSIX file.
Then the result of that
will be coerced to an alias.
That's because AppleScripts
are read left to right,
and they're executed left to right
and from the top down in a script.
So the first thing that happens
is that that POSIX path is
coerced to a POSIX file,
which is a path reference,
and then it's coerced to an alias.
So the end result then is an alias
reference that I can use with
QuickTime Player or any other
scriptable application to have that
folder become a target folder or open.
That's how you coerce from
POSIX to alias in one line.
If you didn't know that,
life is horrible.
If you do know that,
you're in the air conditioning.
File URLs.
Little known,
but can be useful in extreme situations.
File URLs describe items on
your drive in the same way that
they're described on the internet,
which is HTTP, blah, blah, blah, blah,
with all the different slashes and stuff.
And they can get these file
URLs from either the system events
application or from the finder,
or you can make them up
yourself if you want to.
And they look like this.
Tell application finder to get the
URL of folder documents of home.
Well, that would return me file colon
slash slash localhost slash user
slash style slash documents.
File localhost user slash style.
Now,
you'll notice that in the other ones.
It automatically provides that for you.
When you're asking for the file URL,
you don't have to worry about
the percentage encoding.
That'll get handled for you in
the information that's returned.
So those are the five types,
and how do we coerce between them?
So let me just review.
They are nested reference,
path reference, alias reference, POSIX,
and then file URLs.
To coerce between them,
we'll review this quickly.
You can coerce between the
following reference types:
nested reference to an alias reference.
So I can get a nested reference
back from the finder and say,
"I'd like this as an alias."
You can coerce between a path
reference to an alias reference.
So I can take a path reference that
I construct myself with my script
and then coerce that to an alias that
I can then pass to an application.
You can coerce from a POSIX path
to a POSIX file to an alias
reference like we just saw.
And then you can coerce
between an alias reference to a
POSIX path as we saw previously.
Nested references, again,
cannot be generated by scripts.
So here's an example.
Folder applications of the startup
disk as an alias will return me alias
Macintosh HD colon applications colon.
Folder Macintosh
HD applications as alias.
This is an example of a path reference
within the parens coerced to an alias.
So that returns the same thing.
And then entel.
The POSIX path of an alias
Macintosh HD blah blah.
So we have an alias reference here.
We're asking for the POSIX path.
That will return us the POSIX path
to that particular directory.
And then if I take that and coerce it
to a POSIX file and then to an alias,
it returns us back to an alias.
So that's how you coerce an
AppleScript between the various types.
Has anybody ever told
you that stuff before?
It's like mysterious stuff, isn't it?
If you don't know it in the world,
you don't know of AppleScript,
you'll go like this.
And you can see that half my
head's worn away from that.
So let's take a look at
some of this kind of stuff.
Can I have this machine?
What do I call this machine?
Demo?
That's-- Demo 1.
Demo 1.
Thank you.
Okay, this is demo one.
So before we begin taking a look
at these path kind of ideas,
We need to find out where
AppleScript is on your computer
and I'll be happy to show you.
AppleScript lives in a couple
locations on the computer.
The main location is in
the AppleScript folder.
And if you open up your -- ooh, yellow.
I like that.
It's soft on the eyes.
That's nice.
Thank you.
That was really good.
Nice touch.
If you open up the applications folder,
within that folder is a
folder called AppleScript.
This is AppleScript's home turf.
This is where we live.
And we're in Panther right now,
so some of these icons might
become a little bit more
sophisticated by the time we ship.
We do have a script editor
that has an icon though,
and this is the script
editor application.
It's new for,
it's the beta version that we've
been posting on the website and a
lot of people have been using it.
It's an incredibly nicer
version than we had before.
We had the distinction of being the
oldest piece of code shipping in
the operating system prior to this.
This is a native Cocoa application.
It has a lot of power.
Don't be fooled by how
clean and nice it looks.
This is the script editor application.
This is where you read and
write and record your scripts.
It contains two different panes.
In the top area here is
where we write scripts.
Application quote finder.
Remember, names get put within a quote
mark to open the startup disk.
And this is our compile button
for checking our code to make
sure it's been written correctly.
This is our run button,
and when I run it -- well,
that's interesting.
Oh, I hit others.
Okay.
Sorry.
I fooled myself.
I only have me to blame.
And that pane is where
we write our scripts.
You'll notice that as I clicked the
compile when it was checking the script
to make sure it was written properly,
certain words become bold.
Certain words will become indented.
This is to show you which words
belong to the AppleScript language,
which words belong to the
application that you're addressing.
For example,
the word tell belongs to AppleScript.
So does tell.
So does to.
And so does the.
Startup disk and the verb
open belong to the finder.
At the bottom here is a multi-paned area.
And we have three panes.
One is a description pane.
And scripts can actually post
little dialogues with scrolling
information about the script.
And you can just save a button,
click a checkbox when
you save your script,
and they will do that for you.
And you keep that
information that you want.
And you can also add a description
that you want to present to the
user in this pane right here,
your description field.
The result field shows you the
last action of your script,
the result of the last action.
So if you had ten actions,
it would show you the result of
the tenth line of your script.
The event log is a way of tracking
what you do with your script.
It will follow along and show you each
of the actions and the result from that.
So if I asked the finder to
get the name of the script,
it would say,
"I want the name of the startup disk."
And you can see that my event log shows
that a command was sent to the finder,
get the name of the startup disk,
and then indent it underneath it
shows you the result of that action.
So this is a way to debug your scripts.
You can use the event log as a
way of tracking what you're doing.
And the result window always contains
the result of the last action,
which is the name of that wonderful name,
Panther W Tools HD,
the name of my startup disk.
This is the script editor window.
This is a script window
within the script editor.
It does have some new features,
especially for this new release,
and one is called the navigation bar.
If you have a rather complex
script that has a lot of different
routines and handlers in it,
they would show up here.
And if you're using other scriptable
language besides Apple script,
they would show up over here.
Which ones were you
referring to clapping to?
Python?
Somebody said once Python, Perl,
and JavaScript, right?
There is a JavaScript OSA component
from Mark Aldrit of Late Night Software,
and you can install that,
and that would show up right there,
and you could use that if you wanted to.
The script editor also provides
us with a way to view the internal
dictionaries of applications.
Applications that are scriptable
have scriptable objects.
They contain scriptable objects,
and each of those objects
contain certain qualities that
make it a scriptable object.
And you can examine the entire
structure of a scriptable application
by asking for its dictionary.
So I just choose the open dictionary.
I'm going to open up
the quicktime player.
[Transcript missing]
So I can run that and it'll launch the
QuickTime player and return me true.
QuickTime Pro is
installed on this machine.
And you'll notice that it said,
it brought up my little welcome movie,
I guess what they're calling it.
And it's currently set
in the preferences,
player preferences,
to show this movie for me automatically.
So I see that that's also a property
down here and it takes a Boolean value.
So I could use this and say set to false.
So I'm going to check
my syntax and run it.
And now when I go back
to the QuickTime player,
If I choose preferences,
player preferences, that's turned off.
So what happens is this piece of code,
this English-like sentence,
is translated into an event that
gets sent to the QuickTime player.
The QuickTime player takes that event,
responds to it,
and does something accordingly.
The dictionary is where you learn
about your particular applications
that you want to script and all
the things that they can do.
For example,
if we'll open up here and we'll
look at the Finder dictionary.
I'll show you the dictionary
quickly for the Finder.
This is how the Finder
dictionary is divided.
It has a standard suite just
like the other application.
It has its own basic suite which
contains some classes of objects.
And then it also has commands.
It has some Finder items.
And these are the properties,
owner privileges,
and then it has some verbs like clean up,
eject, empty, erase, reveal.
You can use the reveal verb
with a reference to the
object to be made visible.
Well, let's try that out.
So I'll say, tell app,
notice the shortcut.
[Transcript missing]
Mistakes.
Something happened.
And there's a typo here.
Start up disk.
Now let's check it again.
And I'm going to give one teacher a verb,
activate, which will bring the
finder to the foreground.
And let's run that.
And there it is.
It selects it and highlights it for you.
It uses the verb reveal.
So, the point I'm showing you here is
that the dictionary contains the
commands for the various applications.
You're going to have to go into
these dictionaries and parse them,
play with them,
have fun with them to learn all the
different things that they can do.
But they are available to you right
from within the script editor.
So, let's take a look at some
of the reference types that
we were looking at here.
And the first one was a nested reference.
So, I'm going to take away
the activate verb here.
And I'm going to say open
up my hard drive and take a
look in my home directory.
And I'm going to go
into my pictures folder,
webcam images, and get that, copy that.
So I'm going to say,
let's make a nested reference to that.
So if I just say home and run that,
it gives me the reference
to the home directory,
folder Apple of folder users of
startup disk of application finder.
[Transcript missing]
Now I have a reference to
folder pictures of folder Apple,
of folder users,
of startup disk of application finder.
And then with that, in that,
there was a folder called webcam images.
So I would say folder webcam images.
images of folder this.
As you can see,
nested references are rather verbose.
That's why we don't create them.
And then I'm going to
take a movie out of there.
And then I could say
document file quote this of.
And that points to that movie file.
That's an example of a nested reference.
It can use that with any
of the commands like open.
And it opens up the movie,
just as if you double
clicked it from the finder.
Or I could use the verb delete.
[Transcript missing]
A path reference.
Now I was writing this
nested reference by hand.
I passed this reference to
the finder by hand because
I wanted to create that for you.
But
If you have a script that you're
writing or that's functioning,
that's performing an action,
you won't be able to create
this kind of thing indirectly.
What you can do is pass it a
reference as a path reference,
which would be file or document file.
This part I can create
because this is just a string.
[Transcript missing]
Then the name of that file, oh, no.
Then the name of this file again,
I'll grab it again.
So a script could generate
this because it's just a text
string and expected-- Oh,
see?
And I misspelled webcam images?
Pictures, that's right.
Well, hold on a second.
Let's try that out.
So let's see if I got this right.
doesn't exist, right?
Because I missed this one thing
here called webcam images.
And again it opens it.
A script can create this
because this is a text string.
We can get the path to the startup
disk or we can get the path to
another directory and then add or
concatenate the name of the file
that we want to the end of that.
Take that,
put the word document file in front
of it and pass it to the finder.
And that's what we have here.
Or you can coerce a path to,
so let's say, home as--
Alias or home as string.
I'm sorry.
Home as string.
And if we run this, it gives me the path
to the home directory,
but as a string.
So then I can take that.
I'm going to make a variable,
and in AppleScript,
This location to home is that.
In AppleScript, when you make a variable,
are we familiar with what variables are?
I assume.
Variables are containers.
They contain information.
In AppleScript, to make a variable,
you just make up a name that
AppleScript doesn't know,
that's not part of a dictionary.
You can make them up
in a variety of ways,
such as this, where I use two words that
are underscored together,
or you could make it
probably something like this,
where you have an inner cap,
or you could just make it X.
Whatever you want to
use for your variable,
you can do that,
but I'm going to say this location.
So I can go back to home as string
and then I have that part stored into
the variable and then I could say,
[Transcript missing]
And then the name of the file,
which I'll grab one more time
because I'm lazy to memorize it.
So what I've done now
is created a string.
Let's run that.
And I have a string to
make it a path reference.
All I need to do now is tell
the finder to open document,
file, and then whatever's
inside of this container,
which is a path reference.
And now that's how you pass a reference
to the finder or to an application.
Does that make sense?
So you can create these yourself by
putting together pieces of string.
You can't create a nested reference
on the fly like this is doing.
Okay.
Then the last thing that we wanted
to look at was the alias reference.
So I could ask this location.
I'm going to delete that again.
Instead of as string,
I'm going to say as alias.
I misspelled
And that's how I can coerce from a nested
reference right to an alias reference.
So now within the variable
I have alias panthered this to
a directory to my home folder.
So if I say open this location,
what will happen?
My home directory open.
That's how you coerce to an alias.
So those are the different
kinds of references.
Nested reference, path reference,
alias reference,
and then we have POSIX paths as well.
So if I wanted to take this and
then coerce that to a POSIX path,
then I could say...
POSIX path of this location,
because what's inside the
variable is just the same thing
as if I was addressing it,
and I misspelled path.
Notice how AppleScript finds that for me.
And there it gives me the pass.
So if I needed to do a do shell script,
or I needed to pass
something to the terminal,
then I could coerce what I had
into this kind of a thing.
Does that make sense?
We see how that works?
Very simple.
OK.
Let's go back to these slides.
Laptop one.
This is kind of dry stuff,
but it's the stuff that nobody's
going to tell you otherwise.
Okay, finding items.
How do you find items?
Specific items can be located
by querying the finder of the
system events applications.
And the way that you do
this is just by asking.
Items can be located in two
different kinds of ways.
You can identify items by
two different kinds of ways.
Does anybody know what they are?
index and property.
For example, we have people here.
I'm standing here and I could say,
if I need to find somebody by index,
I could say, third person in the third
row on my left-hand side,
please stand up.
And that would be this
gentleman right here.
I won't embarrass you.
Please sit down.
So that's an index, right?
Third, third.
We're looking at a number,
where they are in a position,
in a list of people or a row of people.
I'm looking for a specific one.
I could say, the tenth row,
please stand up.
And the tenth row from
here would stand up.
I'm using the index property of an
item to identify a specific one,
to get to where I want to get to.
The second way that you can identify
items in AppleScript is by a property.
Now, we all have properties.
Every scriptable object has properties.
A movie has a property of a, of a, um,
duration.
A movie has a property of a kind.
Is it an audio track or a video track?
As a matter of fact,
it relates a lot to the way life is.
Consider Sal to be a scriptable object.
Let's say, okay.
As a scriptable object,
I have certain qualities
that make me who I am.
Um, I have a height.
I have a weight, unfortunately.
I have an age.
I have a position in the room.
I have a
I have a name and these
qualities define who Sal is or
help define all that is Sal.
Now you can use the properties
of a scriptable object as
a way of identifying it.
For example, here's one,
would everybody who's
named Bob please stand up?
Oh, come on.
Really?
An entire place?
There's no bobs?
OK.
Wow.
Charlene?
No.
OK.
But you get the idea.
I could say-- we could go by color.
I could say, well,
everybody's wearing a red shirt.
Please stand up.
And then people would stand
up if they so felt like it.
But you can see what I'm talking about.
You can use a property.
You can use a quality or a
value of a property as a way
of identifying a specific item.
And the same works in AppleScript.
You can find by index or
you can find by property.
Here's how you find by index.
Every scriptable item on disk or
belonging to an application occupies
a specific space in the order of
items in its parent container.
What does that mean?
Okay.
Finder windows.
Here's a good one, right?
Can there be two finder
windows on the same level?
No.
For some reason,
there always has to be one finder
window that can move on top of another.
There's always one finder
window that gets on another.
In other words,
if we looked at the finder sideways,
we would see a stack of
windows that were open.
That stack is a list of windows,
and every window has an index
number corresponding to the
way it is in that stack.
The middle guy might be window three.
The top guy will be window... Right.
And the last guy would be the
total sum of the number of windows.
So the index property identifies where
an object is in the list of objects.
If I had five movies
open in QuickTime Player,
there could only be one front movie.
Right?
So the front movie would have an
index value of... So I could say,
"Tell movie one to
play," and it would play.
If I said, "Tell movie two to play," the
front movie wouldn't play.
The movie behind it would play.
So the index property is
a way of identifying a
particular item in AppleScript.
Numeric values represent an
item's place and blah blah.
It's called an index.
Here's an example.
Tell application finder to get
item one of the startup disk.
What's that going to get?
What would that return?
It would probably return something like
folder applications of the startup disk.
It's going to return me a nested
reference to the first object
that it finds on the startup disk.
Item 1.
So I'm using the term item,
which is generic identifier, remember?
And I'm saying give me the first
one by saying the index value of 1.
Tell Application Finder
to get item 12 of home.
Well, that could return anything
on anybody's machine,
but in this case,
I have a nested reference
to the folder downloads,
the folder sale of folder
users of the startup disk.
So, I'm identifying it by it's
the 12th item in the container
that I know lovingly as home.
So, items are, when you have a bunch
of items in a container,
they're actually like a list.
This is a list in AppleScript.
This is what a list looks
like in AppleScript.
And it's the same kind of list that
works for a list of references,
a list of data, a list of numbers,
a list of names,
a list of combination of anything.
In AppleScript, you can put all kinds
of stuff into a list.
It doesn't make any difference.
You don't have to declare,
"This list only has fish." No.
You can put in anything that you want to.
And it begins with a curly brace,
and each item in the list
is separated by a comma,
and it's closed with a curly brace.
So, let's imagine that
that's a list of items.
So if I ask teleapplication finder to
get item count of items of home of home.
Now what's that?
What am I doing there?
I'm asking for the
last file or last item.
It could be an item, right?
So it could be a folder.
We don't know.
But I'm asking for the last
thing in the home directory.
I'm doing it by with this paren thing.
As we know in algebra, you know,
what was that?
It's like turn and then twist.
I like that.
Turn and twist.
That's good.
The count of items of home
will get executed first because
it's within parentheses,
right?
Similar to like what we learned
in seventh grade with algebra.
Things inside of parentheses get
done first and then the result
replaces them and then the thing
continues from the outside in.
So the first thing that this
script will do is it's going to
get the count of the items of home,
replace that, and then use that number
as whatever item is.
If I have 24 items in the home directory,
that will be item 24
will be returned to me.
So in this case, it was folder USB keys,
U being the last thing
I probably had in the folder.
Now, so far we've been looking at
our list from left to right.
But AppleScript has this interesting
thing called the negative index.
Ooh,
see this is the kind of stuff that you
get when you come to see Uncle Sal.
AppleScript supports the iteration
of lists actually in both directions.
As if you're not confused enough,
you need more.
Items in a list have a positive
index value when the list is
transverse from left to right,
or from top to bottom
in the case of Windows,
right?
But when you read them
from right to left,
or from bottom to top,
they have negative numbers.
Ooh, interesting.
For example, left to right,
this list is item 1, item 2, item 3,
item 4, item 5, right?
But when you read it the other way,
from right to left,
that's item minus one, item minus two,
item minus three, item minus four,
item minus five.
Okay, let's do that again.
Left to right, one, two, three, four,
five this way, back this way, minus one,
minus two, minus three, minus four,
minus five.
That's called a negative index value.
Now why do we know that?
Why do we want to use that?
What do we care about that?
Well, remember how I said tell
application finder to get item
count of items of home of home?
That's a lot of work to do just
to get the last guy in the home.
What else could I use instead?
Minus one, darn right.
So if that returns the USB, so does this.
Tell application finder to
get item minus one of home,
returns folder USB key of folder
cell of folder users of startup disk.
So this is an example of why you want to
use negative index values on occasion.
If I wanted to get the item
before the last item of home,
what would I use?
The one before the before.
Three.
The one before the before the before.
Four.
And now I'm lost.
I'm not going any farther.
Okay, we can also find items by range.
I can ask for a range of
items using index values.
For example, I could say,
tell application finder to get items
two through five of the startup disk.
And that's going to return me
perhaps something like that,
you know, folder applications and
the next thing in the list.
So in this case,
the list is a list of references.
Before it was just a list of names,
right?
But now a list can
contain anything we want.
It's a list of first references,
folder applications,
a startup disk application, finder,
comma, next list item, blah, blah, blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah,
next list item like that.
So I get back a list of items by
identifying a range using numbers.
Tell application finder to get items one
through minus one of the startup disk.
What will that do?
Everything.
Why don't I just use this instead?
See, that's the beauty of AppleScript.
We got all this cool stuff,
so instead of doing one to minus one,
you can just say every.
Every is a great word in AppleScript.
Every item of the startup disk.
Finding items by descriptive index.
Now, I'm giving you the extra stuff
that you normally don't get,
so here's something cool.
Since AppleScript's supposed
to be conversational,
you can write it as terse as you like,
or you can write it as
verbose as you like.
You can use words like this: first,
second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth,
seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth.
You can use those instead
of writing out the numbers.
Why?
I don't know.
So you can say, here's why.
You can tell Application Finder
to get the first item of home.
So you can use the word first.
Or you can use first, 23rd, 10th,
you know, 4,678th.
So you can support--it
supports that as well.
So you could say,
"Tell application finder to get the
22nd item of home." Instead of saying,
"Item 22," you could say,
"22nd item." Conversational.
Finding items by relative position.
Now, this is interesting.
So items can be referenced in terms
of the position relative to other
items in their parent container.
So will the person next to the
person on the end wave his hand?
Of the second row.
Yes, there you go.
A little bit of prompting, it worked.
So there,
I took somebody as an identifier,
was the gentleman on the
end of the second row,
and that was my pivot.
And then based upon him,
I referred to somebody else.
Would the person who's sitting
across from the gentleman in
the second row wave his hand?
Right here.
So you're using an item by index and then
referring in relative position to that.
You can do the same thing
with AppleScript and files
and things like that.
And you can use these terms
when doing relative position.
Front, first, back, last, middle.
So I could say,
give me the name of the middle
window of a stack of windows,
and it's going to find the window
that's in the middle and return that.
I could say,
give me the name of the last window.
Give me the name of the front window.
And as a matter of fact,
there's the last item
of the startup disk,
the middle track of the front library.
That's iTunes.
You can expand and alter that relative
positioning using the words after.
and before.
The item before the last item,
the item after the middle item.
So those are examples of how you
can use relative positioning to find
specific things with index values.
Also, you can generate random things by
using the word "some." So if I ask
for some item of the startup disk,
every time, it's going to give me
something different.
So that's finding items by index.
That's an important concept to get,
but once you do that with AppleScript,
it's really good for
doing that kind of thing.
The only thing that's tricky
about index is if something moves,
everything changes.
If somebody leaves this row,
the quality of the row is changed now,
and my index stuff that I had
set up doesn't work anymore.
So be careful when using index
value as a way to find an item,
but it can be very useful.
Now, finding items by property.
Well, you pretty much guessed this one,
too, right?
Every item on disk, like Sal,
has a property name, blah, blah.
He gets older and older.
Some of the properties you can change.
I can change my shirt.
I can't change my age.
That, unfortunately,
is a read-only property.
There are some properties like name,
kind, which is also file type.
You can find items by file type, size,
creation, modification, dates.
Just about any property of an item can be
used to delineate it when you're looking
for it with AppleScript on a disk.
You can find them by comparing
the value of their properties
to a desired set of values.
For example,
the first document file whose
name contains Smith Project.
I'm asking for the first document file
whose name contains Smith Project.
Now watch this magic happen.
The first folder whose size
is greater than 500,000,
that's bytes.
In AppleScript world, you'd say bytes,
and then you'd have to do the math.
We have math, though.
Every document file
whose file type is JPEG,
hmm, might be useful.
Every document file whose
name extension is PDF,
hmm, that might be interesting, too,
as well.
Let's examine this farther.
How do you do these queries,
these finding queries?
How do you create a query?
Well, we know that when you do
Command-F in the finder,
what do you get?
You get that pop-up
window thing that has the,
you go add another detail, add, remove,
damn, I want the other detail,
the pop date created.
So you're basically writing a sentence
is what you're doing with those things,
right?
You want something whose
name begins with this,
but creation date is after so-and-so.
Well, a query in AppleScript is composed
by combining these elements first.
[Transcript missing]
That's right, it's all right,
it's all right, it's all bad.
Target properties, so then you have to
identify what property is,
then your comparison operator.
Now this is the interesting one.
Contains.
Well, you can use every one
that you can think of.
Contains, does not contain, is in,
begins with, ends with, is greater than,
is less than,
is greater than or equal to,
is not greater than or equal to,
isn't greater than or equal to.
Just about any one of the things that
you can think up in your head for
the English language will fit into
one of these comparison operators.
And then finally,
what is the value of a property
that you're searching on?
And that is, in this particular case,
the Name Value Smith project.
So all of those things that
have names just go into that.
We understand these implicitly.
You really don't have to
think about them beyond that.
Now,
here's how you can change the positional
indicator to change your query.
The first document file.
The last document file.
Every document file.
You can change the comparison
operator to change your query.
Every document file whose
name contains SmithProject.
Every document file whose name
does not contain SmithProject.
Every document file whose
name begins with SmithProject.
name ends with SmithProject.
And you can also change the property
value that you're looking for.
Every document file whose
name contains SmithProject.
Or every document file whose
name contains ACCStats.
Do you get the idea of how this works?
It's pretty much like you think, right?
Now, what about recursing?
How do you get down through a directory,
a hierarchy?
So if I have a folder within my
documents folder for a project,
I want to search
everything in that folder.
How do I do that?
Well, you go to JavaScript and
you write for if,
blah, bleh,
and then you start doing a recursive
loop that recalls itself back up at the
top again when you get down to here.
No.
We don't do that in AppleScript.
We're civilized.
We're bohemian but civilized, darn it.
And the way you do that is with
the entire contents property.
Every document file of the entire
contents of folder documents of home
whose name contains SmithProject
will do all the recursing for me.
What will I get back?
I'll get back a list of references
to every item within that entire
hierarchy who might have been in
that folder for a long matches those
particular query objects that I set up.
Now, let's take a look at some of that.
Can I go to demo, please?
One, demo one.
Index value, demo one, demo two.
Demo one, demo two.
Can I go to the machine next to demo,
the other demo machine besides demo two?
That is not,
a demo machine that is not demo two.
Quick, write it again.
Write it again.
Demo one.
Thank you.
Sal, your irreverence has cost you.
Okay,
you guys are going to make it hard on me,
all right?
I'm going to try something here.
I'm just going to copy this.
So I'm going to go to the script
editor and I'm going to set up a --
open the window here called library.
And this is my little shortcut
window to my favorite things.
I'm just going to go click
a new script for that.
And then I'm going to go up
to the menu here and go paste.
No, it doesn't let me paste
reference anymore?
Okay.
Feature.
Never mind.
You didn't hear that.
Okay, so what I want to do is I want
to do some searching here.
So let me see if I have
anything that's searchable.
Every file, every document file,
document file of the desktop,
[Transcript missing]
JPG image.
I think that works.
And it gave me a link to an image.
And it gave it to me in a list format.
Why did it give it to me in a list?
Because I asked for every,
and it just happens to be one, right?
So if I want to get
something out of that list,
then I could say,
Set this image, my variable, to item1 of,
and then I'll put that all
in parentheses like this,
so I'll get the first one.
That's one way to get the first one.
Can't get item one of
every document file.
That's interesting.
That's a bug.
I'll have it done by Tuesday.
Let's shortcut the process by doing that.
And that gives me back one.
Why?
Because I asked for the
first instead of every.
Now that I have this image,
then I can go open this image.
So there's how to do a query and find
something and do something with it,
right?
Let's try something else.
Let's go, uh, uh,
[Transcript missing]
Okay, there's a lot of stuff.
You can see that it returns me a
list of all the matching items,
right?
Folder sites, whose name contains SI.
folder music, which contains SI,
and folder sites that contains SI.
And then I wonder if I can say
reveal if it will let me do that.
I'm going to try that.
And it probably did the --
it selected both of them.
There they are.
Both of them have been selected.
So -- Ooh.
So what we have here is cleaning
and waxing in one motion.
One motion I find the stuff,
the other one I actually
do something with it.
In one line of AppleScript we are
able to clean and wax together.
And that's how you do it using
these type of finding techniques.
Let's go back to slide machine please,
which is laptop.
Now I'm going to go through some of this.
This is secret stuff that we're done.
Oh, we're done?
Can I just have everybody
come back to my room?
You guys want to come back to my room?
They won't mind.
The Argent, I'm right over at the Argent.
We'll just walk in, you know.
They're with me.
I apologize about that,
but I hope perhaps that maybe this
gave you a little inkling of what
some of the AppleScript can do for
you and a little bit of the ability.
One place you go,
www.apple.com slash AppleScript.
Click the resources button and there's
a ton of stuff there for you to peruse.
Thank you so much.
I appreciate it.
Applause